apps/web/content/docs/concepts/evidence-chain.mdx, before:

---
title: "Evidence Chain"
description: "SHA-256 hash chain that provides tamper-proof cryptographic integrity for all Corsair evidence."
section: "concepts"
order: 13
---

## Overview

Every Corsair assessment produces an **evidence chain** — a JSONL file where each record is cryptographically linked to the previous one via SHA-256 hashing. This creates a tamper-proof audit trail that proves no evidence has been modified after collection.

## How It Works

Each evidence record contains:

```json
{
  "sequenceNumber": 1,
  "timestamp": "2026-02-06T10:30:00.000Z",
  "phase": "EVIDENCE",
  "type": "snapshot",
  "data": { "...": "..." },
  "previousHash": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
  "hash": "a3f8b2c1d4e5f6a7b8c9d0e1f2a3b4c5d6e7f8a9b0c1d2e3f4a5b6c7d8e9f0"
}
```

### Chain Mechanics

1. The first record has `previousHash` set to all zeros (genesis)
2. Each subsequent record includes the `hash` of the previous record as its `previousHash`
3. The `hash` is computed as `SHA-256(JSON.stringify(record_without_hash))`
4. Breaking any record invalidates all subsequent hashes

## Verification

Verify a chain programmatically:

```typescript
import { verifyChain } from "corsair/evidence";

const records = readJsonl("./evidence/assessment.jsonl");
const result = verifyChain(records);
// { valid: true, recordCount: 12, brokenAt: null }
```

Or via the CLI:

```bash
bun corsair.ts verify ./evidence/assessment.jsonl
```

## Evidence Phases

Evidence records are tagged with their pipeline phase:

| Phase | Evidence Type |
|-------|--------------|
| EVIDENCE | Accepted tool output and evidence artifacts |
| SIGN | Provenance recording and signed attestation |
| CHART | Framework mapping results (optional enrichment) |
| QUARTER | Governance scores (optional enrichment) |

## JSONL Format

Evidence uses JSONL (JSON Lines) — one JSON object per line. This format is:

- **Appendable** — New records are appended without rewriting the file
- **Streamable** — Process records one at a time without loading the full file
- **Portable** — Standard format supported by jq, Splunk, Datadog, etc.

## Integration

Evidence chains integrate with:

- **OSCAL output** — Hash chain status included in Assessment Results metadata
- **Marque documents** — Chain root hash and record count are part of the signed attestation
- **GRC platforms** — JSONL can be ingested by ServiceNow, Jira, Splunk via webhooks

## Compaction

For repeated assessments, the evidence compaction engine can merge multiple chains while preserving integrity:

```bash
bun corsair.ts --compact ./evidence/assessment-*.jsonl --output ./evidence/compacted.jsonl
```

Compaction creates a new chain that references the original chains' root hashes, maintaining the full audit trail.

## SCITT Transparency Log Integration

As part of the Parley protocol, evidence chains can be registered with an IETF SCITT (Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust) transparency service. When a Marque is issued, the signed attestation and its evidence chain root hash can be submitted as a SCITT statement, producing a COSE receipt that proves inclusion in the append-only log.

This provides two properties beyond the existing hash chain:

- **Non-repudiation** — The issuer cannot deny having issued the attestation at the recorded time
- **Discoverability** — Third parties can audit the transparency log to verify CPOE history

SCITT integration is production-ready with a Postgres-backed append-only transparency log. Statements are registered with SHA-256 Merkle tree hashing, and receipts are generated as COSE_Sign1 signed envelopes (RFC 9052) using Ed25519 — with hand-rolled CBOR encoding (RFC 8949) and zero external crypto dependencies. The API is available at `/scitt/entries` for registration and `/scitt/entries/:id/receipt` for receipt retrieval.

Commit message:

fix(parley): harden evidence chain digest

apps/web/content/docs/concepts/evidence-chain.mdx, after:

---
title: "Evidence Chain"
description: "SHA-256 hash chain that provides tamper-proof cryptographic integrity for all Corsair evidence."
section: "concepts"
order: 13
---

## Overview

Every Corsair assessment produces an **evidence chain** — a JSONL file where each record is cryptographically linked to the previous one via SHA-256 hashing. This creates a tamper-proof audit trail that proves no evidence has been modified after collection.

## How It Works

Each evidence record contains:

```json
{
  "sequenceNumber": 1,
  "timestamp": "2026-02-06T10:30:00.000Z",
  "phase": "EVIDENCE",
  "type": "snapshot",
  "data": { "...": "..." },
  "previousHash": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
  "hash": "a3f8b2c1d4e5f6a7b8c9d0e1f2a3b4c5d6e7f8a9b0c1d2e3f4a5b6c7d8e9f0"
}
```

### Chain Mechanics

1. The first record has `previousHash` set to all zeros (genesis)
2. Each subsequent record includes the `hash` of the previous record as its `previousHash`
3. The `hash` is computed as `SHA-256(canonical(record_without_hash))` using `sorted-json-v1`
4. Breaking any record invalidates all subsequent hashes

### Chain Digest

Each evidence chain also exposes a **chain digest** — a Merkle root computed over all record hashes.
This provides a single stable fingerprint for the entire chain and is embedded in CPOEs as
`evidenceChain.chainDigest` alongside `chainType`, `algorithm`, and `canonicalization`.

## Verification

Verify a chain programmatically:

```typescript
import { verifyChain } from "corsair/evidence";

const records = readJsonl("./evidence/assessment.jsonl");
const result = verifyChain(records);
// { valid: true, recordCount: 12, brokenAt: null }
```

Or via the CLI:

```bash
bun corsair.ts verify ./evidence/assessment.jsonl
```

## Evidence Phases

Evidence records are tagged with their pipeline phase:

| Phase | Evidence Type |
|-------|--------------|
| EVIDENCE | Accepted tool output and evidence artifacts |
| SIGN | Provenance recording and signed attestation |
| CHART | Framework mapping results (optional enrichment) |
| QUARTER | Governance scores (optional enrichment) |

## JSONL Format

Evidence uses JSONL (JSON Lines) — one JSON object per line. This format is:

- **Appendable** — New records are appended without rewriting the file
- **Streamable** — Process records one at a time without loading the full file
- **Portable** — Standard format supported by jq, Splunk, Datadog, etc.

## Integration

Evidence chains integrate with:

- **OSCAL output** — Hash chain status included in Assessment Results metadata
- **Marque documents** — Chain digest and record count are part of the signed attestation
- **GRC platforms** — JSONL can be ingested by ServiceNow, Jira, Splunk via webhooks

## Compaction

For repeated assessments, the evidence compaction engine can merge multiple chains while preserving integrity:

```bash
bun corsair.ts --compact ./evidence/assessment-*.jsonl --output ./evidence/compacted.jsonl
```

Compaction creates a new chain that references the original chains' digests, maintaining the full audit trail.

## SCITT Transparency Log Integration

As part of the Parley protocol, evidence chains can be registered with an IETF SCITT (Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust) transparency service. When a Marque is issued, the signed attestation and its evidence chain digest can be submitted as a SCITT statement, producing a COSE receipt that proves inclusion in the append-only log.

This provides two properties beyond the existing hash chain:

- **Non-repudiation** — The issuer cannot deny having issued the attestation at the recorded time
- **Discoverability** — Third parties can audit the transparency log to verify CPOE history

SCITT integration is production-ready with a Postgres-backed append-only transparency log. Statements are registered with SHA-256 Merkle tree hashing, and receipts are generated as COSE_Sign1 signed envelopes (RFC 9052) using Ed25519 — with hand-rolled CBOR encoding (RFC 8949) and zero external crypto dependencies. The API is available at `/scitt/entries` for registration and `/scitt/entries/:id/receipt` for receipt retrieval.
