apps/web/content/docs/concepts/marque-signing.mdx, before:

---
title: "Marque & CPOE"
description: "Ed25519 signing, JWT-VC format, verification flow, trust tiers, and the CPOE attestation system."
section: "concepts"
order: 11
---

## What is a Marque?

A **Marque** is a cryptographically signed document that attests to the results of a Corsair compliance assessment. Named after the historical Letter of Marque that authorized privateers, it serves as a **Certificate of Proof of Operational Effectiveness (CPOE)**.

## JWT-VC Format

Corsair packages CPOEs as **W3C Verifiable Credentials** encoded as JWTs:

```
eyJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsInR5cCI6InZjK2p3dCIsImtpZCI6ImRpZDp3ZWI6ZXhhbXBsZS5jb20ja2V5LTEifQ...
```

The JWT contains:
- **Header**: `{ alg: "EdDSA", typ: "vc+jwt", kid: "did:web:domain#key-1" }`
- **Payload**: W3C VC 2.0 claims with CPOE credential subject and `parley: "2.0"`
- **Signature**: Ed25519 over header.payload (the JWT IS the proof)

The CPOE credential subject maps directly to the assessment results:

```json
{
  "type": "CorsairCPOE",
  "schemaVersion": "1.0",
  "scope": "SOC 2 Type II — Cloud Infrastructure Controls",
  "provenance": {
    "source": "tool",
    "sourceIdentity": "Scanner v1.2",
    "sourceDate": "2026-01-15T00:00:00Z"
  },
  "summary": { "controlsTested": 24, "controlsPassed": 22, "overallScore": 92 },
  "extensions": {
    "mapping": { "id": "toolx-evidence-only", "evidenceOnly": true },
    "passthrough": { "summary": { "passed": 12, "failed": 2 } }
  },
  "dependencies": [
    {
      "issuer": "did:web:vendor.com",
      "scope": "SOC 2 Type II — Infrastructure",
      "cpoe": "https://vendor.com/cpoe.jwt",
      "digest": "sha256:4b2c...d91"
    }
  ]
}
```

The `provenance` field records where the evidence came from.
The `extensions` field is optional and is used for passthrough data or mapping metadata (evidence-only CPOEs).
The `dependencies` field is optional and links to upstream CPOEs for composable trust graphs.
Extensions must be namespaced (`mapping`, `passthrough`, `x-`, or `ext.`).

Any W3C VC 2.0 verifier can validate a Corsair credential — verification is not locked to Corsair tooling.

## Signing

Corsair uses **Ed25519** (Edwards-curve Digital Signature Algorithm) for signing:

- Zero external dependencies — uses Node.js built-in `crypto` module
- 64-byte signatures, 32-byte keys
- Deterministic — same input always produces same signature
- Fast verification (important for client-side use)

## DID Identity

Corsair uses `did:web` for issuer identity. Organizations publish a DID document at:

```
https://example.com/.well-known/did.json
```

The DID document contains the Ed25519 public key. During verification, the `kid` in the JWT header points to the DID URL, enabling automatic key discovery.

## Provenance

Every CPOE records provenance — who produced the underlying evidence:

| Source | Meaning |
|--------|---------|
| **self** | Organization self-attests without automated evidence |
| **tool** | Security tooling (scanner output, API export) produced the evidence |
| **auditor** | Independent third party reviewed and verified |

Corsair does not judge evidence quality. It records provenance and lets buyers decide what's sufficient.

## Verification

Marque verification is **fully client-side** at [grcorsair.com/marque](/marque):

1. Paste the Marque JWT and the issuer's public key
2. Web Crypto API verifies the Ed25519 signature
3. Evidence chain integrity is validated
4. Expiry date is checked

No data leaves the browser. No server calls. No Corsair account needed.

Cross-platform verification is also supported:
- **Corsair CLI** — `bun bin/corsair-verify.ts`
- **Any JWT library** — jose, jsonwebtoken, etc. with EdDSA support
- **W3C VC verifiers** — Any spec-compliant implementation

## Sanitization

Before signing, Corsair sanitizes sensitive data:
- AWS Account IDs -> redacted
- ARNs -> redacted
- IP addresses -> redacted
- File paths -> redacted
- API keys -> redacted

The Marque contains assessment *results*, not raw infrastructure details.

Commit message:

feat: add OIDC claim mapping, keyless onboarding, and SCITT auto-register

apps/web/content/docs/concepts/marque-signing.mdx, after:

---
title: "Marque & CPOE"
description: "Ed25519 signing, JWT-VC format, verification flow, trust tiers, and the CPOE attestation system."
section: "concepts"
order: 11
---

## What is a Marque?

A **Marque** is a cryptographically signed document that attests to the results of a Corsair compliance assessment. Named after the historical Letter of Marque that authorized privateers, it serves as a **Certificate of Proof of Operational Effectiveness (CPOE)**.

## JWT-VC Format

Corsair packages CPOEs as **W3C Verifiable Credentials** encoded as JWTs:

```
eyJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsInR5cCI6InZjK2p3dCIsImtpZCI6ImRpZDp3ZWI6ZXhhbXBsZS5jb20ja2V5LTEifQ...
```

The JWT contains:
- **Header**: `{ alg: "EdDSA", typ: "vc+jwt", kid: "did:web:domain#key-1" }`
- **Payload**: W3C VC 2.0 claims with CPOE credential subject and `parley: "2.0"`
- **Signature**: Ed25519 over header.payload (the JWT IS the proof)

The CPOE credential subject maps directly to the assessment results:

```json
{
  "type": "CorsairCPOE",
  "schemaVersion": "1.0",
  "scope": "SOC 2 Type II — Cloud Infrastructure Controls",
  "provenance": {
    "source": "tool",
    "sourceIdentity": "Scanner v1.2",
    "sourceDate": "2026-01-15T00:00:00Z"
  },
  "summary": { "controlsTested": 24, "controlsPassed": 22, "overallScore": 92 },
  "extensions": {
    "mapping": { "id": "toolx-evidence-only", "evidenceOnly": true },
    "passthrough": { "summary": { "passed": 12, "failed": 2 } }
  },
  "dependencies": [
    {
      "issuer": "did:web:vendor.com",
      "scope": "SOC 2 Type II — Infrastructure",
      "cpoe": "https://vendor.com/cpoe.jwt",
      "digest": "sha256:4b2c...d91"
    }
  ]
}
```

The `provenance` field records where the evidence came from.
The `extensions` field is optional and is used for passthrough data or mapping metadata (evidence-only CPOEs).
The `dependencies` field is optional and links to upstream CPOEs for composable trust graphs.
Extensions must be namespaced (`mapping`, `passthrough`, `x-`, or `ext.`). `ext.oidc` is reserved for keyless signing delegation metadata and may include mapped identity claims when configured.

Any W3C VC 2.0 verifier can validate a Corsair credential — verification is not locked to Corsair tooling.

## Signing

Corsair uses **Ed25519** (Edwards-curve Digital Signature Algorithm) for signing:

- Zero external dependencies — uses Node.js built-in `crypto` module
- 64-byte signatures, 32-byte keys
- Deterministic — same input always produces same signature
- Fast verification (important for client-side use)

## DID Identity

Corsair uses `did:web` for issuer identity. Organizations publish a DID document at:

```
https://example.com/.well-known/did.json
```

The DID document contains the Ed25519 public key. During verification, the `kid` in the JWT header points to the DID URL, enabling automatic key discovery.

## Provenance

Every CPOE records provenance — who produced the underlying evidence:

| Source | Meaning |
|--------|---------|
| **self** | Organization self-attests without automated evidence |
| **tool** | Security tooling (scanner output, API export) produced the evidence |
| **auditor** | Independent third party reviewed and verified |

Corsair does not judge evidence quality. It records provenance and lets buyers decide what's sufficient.

## Verification

Marque verification is **fully client-side** at [grcorsair.com/marque](/marque):

1. Paste the Marque JWT and the issuer's public key
2. Web Crypto API verifies the Ed25519 signature
3. Evidence chain integrity is validated
4. Expiry date is checked

No data leaves the browser. No server calls. No Corsair account needed.

Cross-platform verification is also supported:
- **Corsair CLI** — `bun bin/corsair-verify.ts`
- **Any JWT library** — jose, jsonwebtoken, etc. with EdDSA support
- **W3C VC verifiers** — Any spec-compliant implementation

## Sanitization

Before signing, Corsair sanitizes sensitive data:
- AWS Account IDs -> redacted
- ARNs -> redacted
- IP addresses -> redacted
- File paths -> redacted
- API keys -> redacted

The Marque contains assessment *results*, not raw infrastructure details.
