apps/web/content/docs/concepts/pipeline.mdx, before:

---
title: "The CPOE Lifecycle"
description: "How security tool output becomes a cryptographically verifiable CPOE."
section: "concepts"
order: 10
---

## Overview

The Corsair pipeline transforms security tool output into cryptographically signed, universally verifiable Certificates of Proof of Operational Effectiveness (CPOEs). The default path is fully deterministic — no AI, no judgment, just provenance recording, Ed25519 signing, and verifiable transparency.

```
EVIDENCE → SIGN → LOG → PUBLISH → VERIFY → DIFF → SIGNAL
```

FLAGSHIP delivers real-time compliance change notifications via SSF/SET/CAEP.

## Core Pipeline

### EVIDENCE — Tool Output Acceptance

Accepts structured output from security scanning tools and compliance platforms, normalizing it into a canonical control format for signing.

**Supported inputs (mapping-first):**
- `mapping-pack` — Tool-native outputs mapped via the registry (auto-detected)
- `generic` — Pre-structured control data from any source `{ metadata, controls[] }`

**Mapping registry (tool-agnostic):** Mappings extract controls or passthrough fields without code changes. Load mappings via `CORSAIR_MAPPING_DIR`, `CORSAIR_MAPPING_FILE`, the CLI `--mapping` flag, or `corsair mappings add`. Evidence-only mappings still produce valid CPOEs and store passthrough data under `credentialSubject.extensions`. Mappings are evaluated by priority (higher wins), then filename order. Build packs with `corsair mappings pack` and sign them with `corsair mappings sign` — signed packs are verified when `CORSAIR_MAPPING_PACK_PUBKEY` is set.

**Output:** Structured controls with evidence references, provenance metadata, and pass/fail status.

```bash
corsair sign --file tool-output.json --mapping ./mappings/toolx.json
```

### SIGN — Provenance Recording + Ed25519 Signing

The signing stage records provenance (who produced the evidence) and signs the result as a JWT-VC:

| Provenance | Meaning |
|------------|---------|
| **self** | Organization self-attests without automated evidence |
| **tool** | Security tool output produced the evidence |
| **auditor** | Independent third party reviewed and verified the assessment |

**CPOE format:**

```
Header:  { "alg": "EdDSA", "typ": "vc+jwt", "kid": "did:web:grcorsair.com#key-1" }
Payload: { "iss": "did:web:grcorsair.com", "vc": { ... CPOE ... }, "parley": "2.0" }
Signature: Ed25519
```

Corsair does not judge evidence quality. It records where the evidence came from, signs it, and lets buyers decide what's sufficient.

Dependency proofs (`--dependency`) let you link upstream CPOEs and build a trust graph.

### LOG — SCITT Transparency Registration

CPOEs are registered with an IETF SCITT transparency log. Registration produces a COSE receipt proving inclusion in the append-only log:

- **Non-repudiation** — The issuer cannot deny having issued the attestation at the recorded time
- **Discoverability** — Third parties can audit the transparency log to verify CPOE history

The SCITT registry uses SHA-256 Merkle tree hashing with COSE_Sign1 signed receipts (RFC 9052, Ed25519).

Proof-only mode registers only the hash commitment (no CPOE stored):

```bash
corsair log register --file cpoe.jwt --scitt https://log.example.com/scitt/entries --proof-only
```

### PUBLISH — trust.txt Discovery

Publish a machine-readable discovery file at `/.well-known/trust.txt` so any agent can find your DID, CPOEs, SCITT log, catalog, and FLAGSHIP stream:

```bash
corsair trust-txt generate --did did:web:acme.com --scitt https://log.acme.com/scitt/entries
```

Host the output at `https://<domain>/.well-known/trust.txt`, then verify it from the outside:

```bash
corsair trust-txt discover acme.com --verify
```

### VERIFY — Signature + Provenance Verification

Anyone with the issuer's public key (resolved via `did:web`) can verify a CPOE:

1. Decode the JWT header + payload (base64url)
2. Resolve the issuer's DID document via HTTPS
3. Extract the public key matching `header.kid`
4. Verify Ed25519 signature

No server, no account, no data sharing required.

### DIFF — Compare CPOEs Over Time

Track compliance changes between assessments — like `git diff` for compliance:

```bash
corsair diff --current cpoe-v2.jwt --previous cpoe-v1.jwt
```

Shows control-level additions, removals, and status changes.

### SIGNAL — Real-Time Change Notifications

FLAGSHIP delivers standardized compliance change notifications via the OpenID Shared Signals Framework (SSF) and Continuous Access Evaluation Protocol (CAEP). See [FLAGSHIP Events](/docs/concepts/flagship-events) for details.

### RENEW — Re-sign CPOEs

Re-sign an existing CPOE with fresh dates, or with new evidence while preserving scope and DID:

```bash
corsair renew --file cpoe.jwt --output renewed.jwt
corsair renew --file cpoe.jwt --evidence new-findings.json --output renewed.jwt
```

Commit message:

docs: add it request page for trust subdomain

apps/web/content/docs/concepts/pipeline.mdx, after:

---
title: "The CPOE Lifecycle"
description: "How security tool output becomes a cryptographically verifiable CPOE."
section: "concepts"
order: 10
---

## Overview

The Corsair pipeline transforms security tool output into cryptographically signed, universally verifiable Certificates of Proof of Operational Effectiveness (CPOEs). The default path is fully deterministic — no AI, no judgment, just provenance recording, Ed25519 signing, and verifiable transparency.

```
EVIDENCE → SIGN → LOG → PUBLISH → VERIFY → DIFF → SIGNAL
```

FLAGSHIP delivers real-time compliance change notifications via SSF/SET/CAEP.

## Core Pipeline

### EVIDENCE — Tool Output Acceptance

Accepts structured output from security scanning tools and compliance platforms, normalizing it into a canonical control format for signing.

**Supported inputs (mapping-first):**
- `mapping-pack` — Tool-native outputs mapped via the registry (auto-detected)
- `generic` — Pre-structured control data from any source `{ metadata, controls[] }`

**Mapping registry (tool-agnostic):** Mappings extract controls or passthrough fields without code changes. Load mappings via `CORSAIR_MAPPING_DIR`, `CORSAIR_MAPPING_FILE`, the CLI `--mapping` flag, or `corsair mappings add`. Evidence-only mappings still produce valid CPOEs and store passthrough data under `credentialSubject.extensions`. Mappings are evaluated by priority (higher wins), then filename order. Build packs with `corsair mappings pack` and sign them with `corsair mappings sign` — signed packs are verified when `CORSAIR_MAPPING_PACK_PUBKEY` is set.

**Output:** Structured controls with evidence references, provenance metadata, and pass/fail status.

```bash
corsair sign --file tool-output.json --mapping ./mappings/toolx.json
```

### SIGN — Provenance Recording + Ed25519 Signing

The signing stage records provenance (who produced the evidence) and signs the result as a JWT-VC:

| Provenance | Meaning |
|------------|---------|
| **self** | Organization self-attests without automated evidence |
| **tool** | Security tool output produced the evidence |
| **auditor** | Independent third party reviewed and verified the assessment |

**CPOE format:**

```
Header:  { "alg": "EdDSA", "typ": "vc+jwt", "kid": "did:web:grcorsair.com#key-1" }
Payload: { "iss": "did:web:grcorsair.com", "vc": { ... CPOE ... }, "parley": "2.0" }
Signature: Ed25519
```

Corsair does not judge evidence quality. It records where the evidence came from, signs it, and lets buyers decide what's sufficient.

Dependency proofs (`--dependency`) let you link upstream CPOEs and build a trust graph.

### LOG — SCITT Transparency Registration

CPOEs are registered with an IETF SCITT transparency log. Registration produces a COSE receipt proving inclusion in the append-only log:

- **Non-repudiation** — The issuer cannot deny having issued the attestation at the recorded time
- **Discoverability** — Third parties can audit the transparency log to verify CPOE history

The SCITT registry uses SHA-256 Merkle tree hashing with COSE_Sign1 signed receipts (RFC 9052, Ed25519).

Proof-only mode registers only the hash commitment (no CPOE stored):

```bash
corsair log register --file cpoe.jwt --scitt https://log.example.com/scitt/entries --proof-only
```

### PUBLISH — trust.txt Discovery

Publish a machine-readable discovery file at `/.well-known/trust.txt` so any agent can find your DID, CPOEs, SCITT log, catalog, and FLAGSHIP stream:

```bash
corsair trust-txt generate --did did:web:acme.com --scitt https://log.acme.com/scitt/entries
```

Host the output at `https://<domain>/.well-known/trust.txt`, then verify it from the outside:

```bash
corsair trust-txt discover acme.com --verify
```

If your GRC team doesn’t control the root domain, use a delegated subdomain (for example `trust.example.com`). See the [IT request template](/docs/getting-started/it-request).

### VERIFY — Signature + Provenance Verification

Anyone with the issuer's public key (resolved via `did:web`) can verify a CPOE:

1. Decode the JWT header + payload (base64url)
2. Resolve the issuer's DID document via HTTPS
3. Extract the public key matching `header.kid`
4. Verify Ed25519 signature

No server, no account, no data sharing required.

### DIFF — Compare CPOEs Over Time

Track compliance changes between assessments — like `git diff` for compliance:

```bash
corsair diff --current cpoe-v2.jwt --previous cpoe-v1.jwt
```

Shows control-level additions, removals, and status changes.

### SIGNAL — Real-Time Change Notifications

FLAGSHIP delivers standardized compliance change notifications via the OpenID Shared Signals Framework (SSF) and Continuous Access Evaluation Protocol (CAEP). See [FLAGSHIP Events](/docs/concepts/flagship-events) for details.

### RENEW — Re-sign CPOEs

Re-sign an existing CPOE with fresh dates, or with new evidence while preserving scope and DID:

```bash
corsair renew --file cpoe.jwt --output renewed.jwt
corsair renew --file cpoe.jwt --evidence new-findings.json --output renewed.jwt
```
