apps/web/content/docs/getting-started/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quick Start"
description: "Install Corsair, sign your first CPOE from tool output, and verify it in under 5 minutes."
section: "getting-started"
order: 1
---

## Prerequisites

- [Bun](https://bun.sh/) runtime (v1.0+)

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Arudjreis/corsair.git
cd corsair

# Install dependencies
bun install
```

### AI Agent Skill (Claude Code, Cursor, Copilot)

Add Corsair to any AI agent with one command:

```bash
npx skills add grcorsair/corsair
```

Your agent can then sign evidence, verify CPOEs, detect compliance drift, and autonomously assess vendor compliance via `trust.txt`. Works with [25+ AI agents](https://skills.sh).

## Verify a CPOE (No API Key Needed)

Generate a keypair, sign sample evidence, then verify:

```bash
# Generate a signing keypair
corsair keygen --output ./keys

# Create a minimal evidence file
cat <<'JSON' > evidence.json
{
  "metadata": {
    "title": "Acme Corp Security Assessment",
    "date": "2026-02-01",
    "issuer": "Acme Corp Security Team",
    "scope": "Production AWS account"
  },
  "controls": [
    {
      "id": "CTRL-001",
      "description": "MFA enforced for console access",
      "status": "pass",
      "severity": "HIGH",
      "evidence": "All human users have MFA enabled."
    }
  ]
}
JSON

# Sign the evidence into a CPOE
corsair sign --file evidence.json --output cpoe.jwt

# Verify the CPOE
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --pubkey ./keys/corsair-signing.pub

# Or verify via DID:web
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --did

# Verify against local evidence JSONL (strict)
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --evidence ./evidence/corsair-evidence.jsonl

# Require tool-attested receipts + SCITT anchors
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --receipts ./receipts.json --require-receipts --require-scitt

# Verify raw evidence hash binding
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --source-document evidence.json --require-input-binding

# Apply a policy artifact
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --policy ./policy.json
```

This verifies the Ed25519 signature, checks expiry, and displays provenance and control results.

## Sign Tool Output into a CPOE

Corsair takes structured output from security tools and signs it into a cryptographically verifiable CPOE:

```bash
# Sign tool output via a mapping pack
corsair sign --file toolx-output.json --mapping ./mappings/toolx.json

# Force generic parsing (bypass mapping registry)
corsair sign --file evidence.json --format generic
```

## Compare CPOEs Over Time

Track how your compliance posture changes between assessments:

```bash
# Compare two CPOEs (like git diff for compliance)
corsair diff --current cpoe-v2.jwt --previous cpoe-v1.jwt
```

## Generate Signing Keys

```bash
# Generate Ed25519 keypair for CPOE signing
corsair keygen --output ./keys
```

## Re-sign an Expiring CPOE

```bash
# Renew with fresh dates (same evidence)
corsair renew --file cpoe.jwt --output renewed.jwt

# Renew with new evidence
corsair renew --file cpoe.jwt --evidence new-findings.json --output renewed.jwt
```

## CLI Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `corsair sign` | Sign security tool output into a verifiable CPOE |
| `corsair verify` | Verify a CPOE's Ed25519 signature and check validity |
| `corsair diff` | Compare two CPOEs and show control-level changes |
| `corsair log` | List signed CPOEs (local or SCITT log) |
| `corsair renew` | Re-sign a CPOE with fresh dates or new evidence |
| `corsair signal generate` | Generate/verify FLAGSHIP notifications |
| `corsair keygen` | Generate Ed25519 signing keypair |
| `corsair help` | Show available commands |

## Next Steps

- Learn about the [CPOE lifecycle](/docs/concepts/pipeline)
- Understand the [provenance model](/docs/getting-started/core-concepts)
- Explore the [Parley protocol](/docs/concepts/parley-protocol)

Commit message:

docs: add it request page for trust subdomain

apps/web/content/docs/getting-started/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quick Start"
description: "Install Corsair, sign your first CPOE from tool output, and verify it in under 5 minutes."
section: "getting-started"
order: 1
---

## Prerequisites

- [Bun](https://bun.sh/) runtime (v1.0+)

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Arudjreis/corsair.git
cd corsair

# Install dependencies
bun install
```

### AI Agent Skill (Claude Code, Cursor, Copilot)

Add Corsair to any AI agent with one command:

```bash
npx skills add grcorsair/corsair
```

Your agent can then sign evidence, verify CPOEs, detect compliance drift, and autonomously assess vendor compliance via `trust.txt`. Works with [25+ AI agents](https://skills.sh).

## Verify a CPOE (No API Key Needed)

Generate a keypair, sign sample evidence, then verify:

```bash
# Generate a signing keypair
corsair keygen --output ./keys

# Create a minimal evidence file
cat <<'JSON' > evidence.json
{
  "metadata": {
    "title": "Acme Corp Security Assessment",
    "date": "2026-02-01",
    "issuer": "Acme Corp Security Team",
    "scope": "Production AWS account"
  },
  "controls": [
    {
      "id": "CTRL-001",
      "description": "MFA enforced for console access",
      "status": "pass",
      "severity": "HIGH",
      "evidence": "All human users have MFA enabled."
    }
  ]
}
JSON

# Sign the evidence into a CPOE
corsair sign --file evidence.json --output cpoe.jwt

# Verify the CPOE
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --pubkey ./keys/corsair-signing.pub

# Or verify via DID:web
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --did

# Verify against local evidence JSONL (strict)
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --evidence ./evidence/corsair-evidence.jsonl

# Require tool-attested receipts + SCITT anchors
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --receipts ./receipts.json --require-receipts --require-scitt

# Verify raw evidence hash binding
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --source-document evidence.json --require-input-binding

# Apply a policy artifact
corsair verify --file cpoe.jwt --policy ./policy.json
```

This verifies the Ed25519 signature, checks expiry, and displays provenance and control results.

## Sign Tool Output into a CPOE

Corsair takes structured output from security tools and signs it into a cryptographically verifiable CPOE:

```bash
# Sign tool output via a mapping pack
corsair sign --file toolx-output.json --mapping ./mappings/toolx.json

# Force generic parsing (bypass mapping registry)
corsair sign --file evidence.json --format generic
```

## Compare CPOEs Over Time

Track how your compliance posture changes between assessments:

```bash
# Compare two CPOEs (like git diff for compliance)
corsair diff --current cpoe-v2.jwt --previous cpoe-v1.jwt
```

## Generate Signing Keys

```bash
# Generate Ed25519 keypair for CPOE signing
corsair keygen --output ./keys
```

## Re-sign an Expiring CPOE

```bash
# Renew with fresh dates (same evidence)
corsair renew --file cpoe.jwt --output renewed.jwt

# Renew with new evidence
corsair renew --file cpoe.jwt --evidence new-findings.json --output renewed.jwt
```

## CLI Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `corsair sign` | Sign security tool output into a verifiable CPOE |
| `corsair verify` | Verify a CPOE's Ed25519 signature and check validity |
| `corsair diff` | Compare two CPOEs and show control-level changes |
| `corsair log` | List signed CPOEs (local or SCITT log) |
| `corsair renew` | Re-sign a CPOE with fresh dates or new evidence |
| `corsair signal generate` | Generate/verify FLAGSHIP notifications |
| `corsair keygen` | Generate Ed25519 signing keypair |
| `corsair help` | Show available commands |

## Next Steps

- Learn about the [CPOE lifecycle](/docs/concepts/pipeline)
- Ask IT for a delegated trust subdomain using the [IT request template](/docs/getting-started/it-request)
- Understand the [provenance model](/docs/getting-started/core-concepts)
- Explore the [Parley protocol](/docs/concepts/parley-protocol)
