apps/web/content/docs/integrations/api.mdx, before:

---
title: "REST API"
description: "Corsair REST API for signing and verifying CPOEs programmatically."
section: "integrations"
order: 31
---

## Overview

The Corsair REST API provides programmatic access to CPOE signing and verification. All endpoints follow a consistent JSON envelope with request IDs for tracing.

**Base URL:** `https://api.grcorsair.com`

**Versioned API:** `https://api.grcorsair.com/v1` (recommended)

Every response includes:
- `X-Request-Id` header for tracing
- `X-Corsair-Version` header with the API version
- CORS headers (`Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *`)

## Authentication

Protected endpoints require a Bearer token in the `Authorization` header. API keys are provisioned per-organization.

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.grcorsair.com/v1/sign \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer csk_live_abc123..." \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"evidence": {...}}'
```

Public endpoints (verify, health) require no authentication.

| Endpoint | Auth Required |
|:---------|:-------------|
| `GET /v1/health` | No |
| `POST /v1/sign` | Yes |
| `POST /v1/verify` | No |

## Response Envelope

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": { ... }
}
```

Error responses use the same envelope:

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error": {
    "code": "validation_error",
    "message": "Missing required field: \"evidence\""
  }
}
```

## POST /v1/sign

Sign evidence into a CPOE (JWT-VC). Accepts raw tool output from any supported format. Requires authentication.
To support additional tools without code changes, configure the mapping registry on the API server via `CORSAIR_MAPPING_DIR` or `CORSAIR_MAPPING_FILE`.

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.grcorsair.com/v1/sign \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $CORSAIR_API_KEY" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "evidence": {
      "StatusCode": "PASS",
      "FindingInfo": { "Title": "S3 bucket versioning enabled" }
    },
    "format": "prowler",
    "scope": "AWS Production - S3 Controls",
    "expiryDays": 90
  }'
```

**Request Body:**

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|:------|:-----|:---------|:-----------|
| `evidence` | object or string | Yes | Raw tool output (any supported format) |
| `format` | string | No | Force parser format. Auto-detected if omitted |
| `did` | string | No | Override issuer DID (e.g., `did:web:acme.com`) |
| `scope` | string | No | Override scope description |
| `expiryDays` | number | No | CPOE validity in days (default: 7) |
| `dryRun` | boolean | No | Parse without signing |

**Response:**

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "cpoe": "eyJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsInR5cCI6InZjK2p3dCIs...",
    "marqueId": "marque-a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890",
    "detectedFormat": "prowler",
    "summary": {
      "controlsTested": 24,
      "controlsPassed": 22,
      "controlsFailed": 2,
      "overallScore": 91
    },
    "provenance": {
      "source": "tool",
      "sourceIdentity": "Prowler v3.1",
      "sourceDate": "2026-02-13T00:00:00Z"
    },
    "extensions": {
      "mapping": { "id": "toolx-evidence-only", "evidenceOnly": true },
      "passthrough": { "summary": { "passed": 12, "failed": 2 } }
    },
    "warnings": [],
    "expiresAt": "2026-05-14T00:00:00.000Z"
  }
}
```

## POST /v1/verify

Verify a CPOE signature and extract attestation details. No authentication required.

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.grcorsair.com/v1/verify \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "cpoe": "eyJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsInR5cCI6InZjK2p3dCIs..."
  }'
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "valid": true,
    "issuer": "did:web:grcorsair.com",
    "trustTier": "corsair-verified",
    "scope": "SOC 2 Type II - AWS Production Controls",
    "summary": {
      "controlsTested": 24,
      "controlsPassed": 22,
      "controlsFailed": 2,
      "overallScore": 91
    },
    "provenance": {
      "source": "tool",
      "sourceIdentity": "Prowler v3.1",
      "sourceDate": "2026-01-15"
    },
    "extensions": {
      "mapping": { "id": "toolx-evidence-only", "evidenceOnly": true },
      "passthrough": { "summary": { "passed": 12, "failed": 2 } }
    },
    "timestamps": {
      "issuedAt": "2026-02-13T00:00:00.000Z",
      "expiresAt": "2026-05-14T00:00:00.000Z"
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

fix: harden verification and ingestion mappings

apps/web/content/docs/integrations/api.mdx, after:

---
title: "REST API"
description: "Corsair REST API for signing and verifying CPOEs programmatically."
section: "integrations"
order: 31
---

## Overview

The Corsair REST API provides programmatic access to CPOE signing and verification. All endpoints follow a consistent JSON envelope with request IDs for tracing.

**Base URL:** `https://api.grcorsair.com`

**Versioned API:** `https://api.grcorsair.com/v1` (recommended)

Every response includes:
- `X-Request-Id` header for tracing
- `X-Corsair-Version` header with the API version
- CORS headers (`Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *`)

## Authentication

Protected endpoints require a Bearer token in the `Authorization` header. API keys are provisioned per-organization.

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.grcorsair.com/v1/sign \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer csk_live_abc123..." \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"evidence": {...}}'
```

Public endpoints (verify, health) require no authentication.

| Endpoint | Auth Required |
|:---------|:-------------|
| `GET /v1/health` | No |
| `POST /v1/sign` | Yes |
| `POST /v1/verify` | No |

## Response Envelope

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": { ... }
}
```

Error responses use the same envelope:

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error": {
    "code": "validation_error",
    "message": "Missing required field: \"evidence\""
  }
}
```

## POST /v1/sign

Sign evidence into a CPOE (JWT-VC). Accepts raw tool output from any supported format. Requires authentication.
To support additional tools without code changes, configure the mapping registry on the API server via `CORSAIR_MAPPING_DIR` or `CORSAIR_MAPPING_FILE`. Mappings are evaluated by priority (higher wins), then filename order.

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.grcorsair.com/v1/sign \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $CORSAIR_API_KEY" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "evidence": {
      "StatusCode": "PASS",
      "FindingInfo": { "Title": "S3 bucket versioning enabled" }
    },
    "format": "prowler",
    "scope": "AWS Production - S3 Controls",
    "expiryDays": 90
  }'
```

**Request Body:**

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|:------|:-----|:---------|:-----------|
| `evidence` | object or string | Yes | Raw tool output (any supported format) |
| `format` | string | No | Force parser format. Auto-detected if omitted |
| `did` | string | No | Override issuer DID (e.g., `did:web:acme.com`) |
| `scope` | string | No | Override scope description |
| `expiryDays` | number | No | CPOE validity in days (default: 7) |
| `dryRun` | boolean | No | Parse without signing |

**Response:**

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "cpoe": "eyJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsInR5cCI6InZjK2p3dCIs...",
    "marqueId": "marque-a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890",
    "detectedFormat": "prowler",
    "summary": {
      "controlsTested": 24,
      "controlsPassed": 22,
      "controlsFailed": 2,
      "overallScore": 91
    },
    "provenance": {
      "source": "tool",
      "sourceIdentity": "Prowler v3.1",
      "sourceDate": "2026-02-13T00:00:00Z"
    },
    "extensions": {
      "mapping": { "id": "toolx-evidence-only", "evidenceOnly": true },
      "passthrough": { "summary": { "passed": 12, "failed": 2 } }
    },
    "warnings": [],
    "expiresAt": "2026-05-14T00:00:00.000Z"
  }
}
```

## POST /v1/verify

Verify a CPOE signature and extract attestation details. No authentication required.

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.grcorsair.com/v1/verify \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "cpoe": "eyJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsInR5cCI6InZjK2p3dCIs..."
  }'
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "valid": true,
    "issuer": "did:web:grcorsair.com",
    "trustTier": "corsair-verified",
    "scope": "SOC 2 Type II - AWS Production Controls",
    "summary": {
      "controlsTested": 24,
      "controlsPassed": 22,
      "controlsFailed": 2,
      "overallScore": 91
    },
    "provenance": {
      "source": "tool",
      "sourceIdentity": "Prowler v3.1",
      "sourceDate": "2026-01-15"
    },
    "extensions": {
      "mapping": { "id": "toolx-evidence-only", "evidenceOnly": true },
      "passthrough": { "summary": { "passed": 12, "failed": 2 } }
    },
    "timestamps": {
      "issuedAt": "2026-02-13T00:00:00.000Z",
      "expiresAt": "2026-05-14T00:00:00.000Z"
    }
  }
}
```
